GLYCAM PDB TO XYZ
=================

This software converts a PDB file generated by the [GLYCAM-Web Carbohydrate Builder] to an XYZ file to be used with [Playmol].

The software can also perform different reactions with the carbohydrate molecule before creating the XYZ file. The possible reactions are:

* __deacetylation__: Removes every acetyl radical of N-acetyl groups connected to carbon 2 of carbohydrate units, replacing it by two hydrogen atoms. Thus, the radical -N-C(=O)-CH3 is replaced by -NH3, which provides the unit with a positive charge.

* __oxidation__: Oxidizes the -CH2-OH radical at position 6 of every pyranose unit, replacing it by a deprotonated carboxyl group -COO, thus providing the unit with a negative charge.

Author: Charlles R. A. Abreu (abreu@eq.ufrj.br)

Website: http://atoms.peq.coppe.ufrj.br

Installation
------------

To compile _glycampdb2xyz_, simply change to the directory where the source code files are located and execute the command:

    make

If the user desires to have _glycampdb2xyz_ installed in the system, the command is:

    sudo make install

Execution
---------

To execute _glycampdb2xyz_, the user must execute the commad:

    glycampdb2xyz [reaction [skip]] < pdb_file > xyz_file

This will read the carbohydrate structure contained in _pdb_file_ and write it to _xyz_file_ in the XYZ format required by Playmol.

The optional parameter _reaction_ is used to make _glycampdb2xyz_ perform one of the reactions described above.

If the parameter _reaction_ is present, a second optional parameter _skip_ can be used. It tells _glycampdb2xyz_ to skip every given number of carbohydrate units when performing the specified reaction. For instance, if _skip_ = 1, the reaction will occur only with units 2, 4, 6, and so on.

Example
-------

This is an example that explains how to convert a tetramer chain of poly-beta-(1-4)-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (chitin) into a corresponding chain of 100%-deacetylated chitosan:

1. Use the [GLYCAM-Web Carbohydrate Builder] to build a structure with the following code:

        DGlcpNAcb1-4DGlcpNAcb1-4DGlcpNAcb1-4DGlcpNAcb1-OH

2. Download the generated PDB file and rename it to _chitin_tetramer.pdb_. Then execute the following command:

        glycampdb2xyz deacetylation < chitin_tetramer.pdb > chitosan_tetramer.xyz


[GLYCAM-Web Carbohydrate Builder]:	http://glycam.org/cb
[Playmol]:				http://atoms.peq.coppe.ufrj.br/playmol

